# Growth Spark Starter Theme 
**A starter theme for professional WordPress Development**

[View Changelog](https://github.com/growthspark/gs-starter-theme/wiki/Changelog)

## Custom Admin Features

The /inc/admin/ directory now comes stocked with a variety of functions which customize the WordPress admin interface for better usability:

### Enhanced "Recent Drafts" Dashboard Widget

dashboard.recent-drafts.php

Displays an updated version of the "Recent Drafts" dashboard widget that can provide a list drafts for both Pages & Posts, as well as any number of custom post types.  Drafts are organized into separate lists according to type.

Desired post types can be set in the $types array of this file.

### Theme Styles applied to TinyMCE Editor 

tinmyce-editor.php

Visual styling of content in the TinyMCE Editor will reflect theme styles set in style.css, offering users a more realistic preview of what the live page will look like.

### Simplified TinyMCE Toolbar

tinmyce-editor.php

Allows customization of the TinyMCE toolbar.  Can be tweaked on a per-theme basis to suit clients' needs.

Defaults:
* "Heading 1" removed from the formats menu (each page should only have one h1 tag, typically reserved for the page title)
* Justify, strikethrough, and spell-checker buttons disabled
* Menu condensed to one row instead of two

### Admin Branding

logo-settings.php

A new options panel under Appearance -> Logo allows the user to upload a logo for the website.  The logo image can then be generated dynamically on both the front-end as well as the admin panels.

admin-branding.php

A collection of functions that adds custom branding to the Admin panels.  The custom logo (set under Appearance -> Logo) is automatically added to both the login screen & the Dashboard screen.

### Customized Admin Menu Ordering

admin-menu.php

Defaults:
* "Pages" tab is pushed to the top of the menu, just below "Dashboard".  Pages are usually the most used feature, plus it's important to have it next to Posts & other CPTs. 

### Custom User Capabilities

user-capabilities.php

Defaults:
* Users with the "Editor" role have the ability to manage Widgets, Menus, & Theme Options
* The "Tools" menu is hidden for all users below Admin
* The "Plugin Editor" section is disabled for all users

### Remove Dashboard Widgets

remove-dashboard-widgets.php

Supports the removal of unneeded dashboard widgets to provide a cleaner, less cluttered interface.

### Remove Default Widgets

remove-default-widgets.php

De-clutters the Widgets panel (under Appearance -> Widgets) by removing unneeded sidebar widgets.

## Custom Post Type Boilerplate 

cpt.sample.php

Updated cpt-sample.php: Improved code organization and added variables to reduce the amount of customization needed to create a new CPT.

## Custom Theme Widgets

Now included with the theme are 2 custom widgets:

### Feature Box

Simple text widget with an added option for a "Read More" link or button.  Eliminates the need for hard-coding buttons & URLs in widgets.

As of 1.3 also supports the option to add an image to the widget.

### GS Recent Posts

Enhanced Recent Posts widget which supports:

- Custom Post Types
- Date formatting
- Excerpts
- Thumbnails

## Auto-Includer

The Auto-Include feature will automatically include() PHP files placed in the /inc/ folder or in the root of any direct sub-directories of that folder(ie /inc/folder-name).

This helps reduce clutter in the functions.php file and eliminates the need to manually include each new file in functions.php.

**WARNING:** For stability reasons this feature is NOT recommended for production environments.  We suggest added proper require() statements to your functions.php file prior to deploying into production.  For convenience, we've added print statements to these loops to help automatically generate them.

This feature can be found within gs_theme_setup() in functions.php.

## Comments Template

Added an updated comments.php which features a clean, compact layout and provided starting styles in style.css.

## JavaScript


### jQuery Cycle
Minified version of jQuery Cycle now included by default in /js/.  Starting settings are in functions.php, with the expectation that they'll be modified or removed.

## CSS

And updated version of base.css now contains the following:

1. CSS Normalization
2. Essential WordPress classes
3. Fluid 12-column grid system

Enqueue-ing of theme stylesheets has been moved to functions.php, with the expectation that stylesheets will be customized on a per-theme basis.   

Developers should configure their stylesheets in functions.php using wp_register_style and should NOT hard-code them as <link > elements in header.php.  This allows us to control the order in which theme stylesheets load in relation to other stylesheets generated by plugins & the WP Core.

..



